chore(#1321): add apdex sql query (#1322)
medic/cht-docs: content/en/apps/guides/database/querying_apdex_telemetry.md

---
title: "Querying Apdex Telemetry Data"
linkTitle: "Querying Apdex Telemetry Data"
weight:
description: >

>   How to use SQL queries to view Apdex score in RDBMS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  How to use SQL queries to view Apdex scores
```

Reviewer: RDBMS is a Medic thing, we should try to be more generic.

relatedContent: >

>   apps/guides/database/rdbms-from-windows

Reviewer: I'd recommend linking to the data flows.... https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/core/overview/data-flows-for-analytics/

>   apps/guides/database/rdbms-from-mac

Reviewer: and maybe this page https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/apps/guides/database/#postgresql

  apps/guides/performance/telemetry/
---

Added in `4.7.0`, CHT now records the Apdex (Application Performance Index) that is an open standard for measuring performance of software applications.

> The collected Apdex data is downloaded from CouchDB to Postgres Database. Once you have setup and connected to the PostgreSQL RDBMS server on [Windows]({{< ref "apps/guides/database/rdbms-from-windows" >}}) or [Mac]({{< ref "apps/guides/database/rdbms-from-mac" >}}) you can write SQL queries to see the load times of various pages of the CHT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since apdex is part of the [telemetry]({{< ref "apps/guides/performance/telemetry" >}}) system, it is possible to view apdex data directly from CouchDB; However, it is more useful when aggregated across many users, interactions, and/or days. With this in mind, it is typically easier to query the data using SQL from an [analytics database]({{< ref "core/overview/data-flows-for-analytics" >}}).
```

Reviewer: Just FYI I haven't loaded Hugo and tested my "refs", just some suggested links.
